Write migration docs to publish packages to v2 (#728)
elastic/elastic-package: docs/howto/use_package_storage_v2.md

# Use Package Storage v2

## What is the Package Storage v2?

Package Storage v2 is the successor of the [package-storage](https://github.com/elastic/package-storage) Git repository,
and it is composed of Google Cloud buckets, service accounts and jobs responsible for maintenance including publishing and indexing.

The Package Storage v2 is available publicly behind the endpoint: [package-storage.elastic.co](https://package-storage.elastic.co/)
and exposes different package resources:
* zipped packages (e.g. [barracuda-0.2.2.zip](https://package-storage.elastic.co/artifacts/packages/barracuda-0.2.2.zip))
* package signatures (e.g. barracuda-0.2.2 [signature](https://package-storage.elastic.co/artifacts/packages/barracuda-0.2.2.zip.sig))
* extracted static resources (e.g. cisco-0.11.5 [screenshot](https://package-storage.elastic.co/artifacts/static/cisco-0.11.5/img/kibana-cisco-asa.png))

The Package Storage v2 has flat structure. It does not introduce any logic to divide packages into stages or a control panel to promote them.
We recommend to use proper versioning instead and follow these rules:

> * a package with `version < 1.0.0` is experimental
> * a package with version containing a prerelease tag (beta1, SNAPSHOT, next) is experimental

Reviewer: Use of "Experimental" term is being replaced by "Technical preview".
```suggestion
* a package with `version < 1.0.0` is a technical preview.
* a package with `version >= 1.0.0` can contain prerelease tags (beta1, SNAPSHOT, next) on its version to indicate its prerelease state.
```

## What is the goal of storage migration from v1 to v2?

We identified a few issues in v1 design, we couldn't easily overcome or patch:
1. Automatically release new Docker images of the Package Storage without missing packages due to a race condition
   between CI jobs.

> 2. Controle the Docker image size, which is constantly growing (as of today, >1GB). Packages with size >1GB must be served through the Package Registry too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Control the Docker image size, which is constantly growing (as of today, >1GB). Packages with size >1GB must be served through the Package Registry too.
```

> 3. Deprecate promotion between stages. It caused a lot of frustration for customers and most of them didn't follow the recommended promotion path

Reviewer: Nit. I like "package developers" more than "customers" :slightly_smiling_face: 
```suggestion
3. Deprecate promotion between stages. It caused a lot of frustration for package developers and most of them didn't follow the recommended promotion path
```

to the new destination. Every package candidate should be submitted together with a corresponding signature, generated
using the [Elastic signing pipeline](https://internal-ci.elastic.co/job/elastic+unified-release+master+sign-artifacts-with-gpg/).

Here is the list of requirements and code modifications based on the `beats-ci`.

#### Requirements

1. CI job signing credentials (`sign-artifacts-with-gpg-job`) - use them to call the signing pipeline on
   the `internal-ci` Jenkins instance. The pipeline will sign artifacts uploaded to the signing bucket and upload there their signatures.
2. Signing bucket credentials (`internal-ci-gcs-plugin`) - use them to upload zipped packages to be signed
   and download matching signatures.
3. Package Storage GCP uploader credentials (`upload-package-to-package-storage`) - use them to upload a package candidate to the "queue" bucket.
   The candidates will be picked by the publishing job and removed after processing.
4. Package Storage uploader secret (`secret/gce/elastic-bekitzur/service-account/package-storage-uploader`) - use it to kick off

>    the publishing job to process the uploaded candidate.

Reviewer: Could we provide a minimal pipeline as example of what would be needed in a project to publish a package?

This could help to identify if we can provide a one/two-liner helper that could be part of a jenkins library (or https://github.com/elastic/apm-pipeline-library/).

For example the functions of the package-storage jenkinsfile linked below could be parameterized and moved to a shared library.

Reviewer 2: Good question, there are three important benefits while using a shared library:
1) Easy to test it with UTs.
2) Easy to generalise therefore others could benefit from.
3) Simplify the pipeline logic.

On the other hand, it might require backward compatibility if a new change is added, since you might not know what other consumers use it.

Author: Fortunately, it calls two APIs, signing and publishing, so I don't expect it to be super complex. At least for now.

Author: PR to define a minimal publishing pipeline: https://github.com/elastic/elastic-package/pull/729

Author: PR to implement the minimal publishing pipeline: https://github.com/elastic/elastic-package/pull/731
